Welcome back.
Let's try a few more things to test out our assumptions let's say I create.
Once again another object and this object has a name
Sally.
Now if I do object DOD has own property and I do Sally.
Or name in here I get true because we have it as our own property.
That makes sense.
But if I do something like has own property well I get false because object itself doesn't have this
as its own property.
It has this as a property up the prototype chain what about a function in this gets interesting because
let's say have a function called a and it's an empty function.
If I do a DOT has own property and I say Well remember what I said.
All functions have call apply and bind.
Right.
If I do let's say call I get false.
What if I do bind no false for that.
What about let's say apply.
No not for that.
What about name.
Remember how I said a name is an optional field for a function well.
Yep.
Remember functions are objects and a has a name right.
A dot name is.
Well name the name of the function is a itself.
But our call in apply are not as part of the property you see this diagram that I showed you initially
where a function is a special type of object.
It's a callable object where we have code that can be invoked.
We have an optional name field as we just saw and we also have properties that we can add to the function
because while it's an object and then I told you that we have call apply and bind as properties technically
this wasn't 100 percent correct because these properties aren't exactly on the multiply by five function
instead.
Where do you think it is.
Well it's up here it's up the prototype chain.
And don't worry I'll explain this diagram a little bit better but let's try this with a or let's change
this now to multiply by five.
So I'm going to create a function multiply by five.
Now that takes a number and this number will well return Num Times 5 so multiply by 5.
If I go up the prototype chain we'll have our function our base function that all functions get created
from.
Remember we've created a function from this base function over here and now this base function I can
capture it by right clicking and saying store as global variable as temp 1.
If I do temp one dot properties I see all these properties that comes with this function I have apply
bind call I have length I'll have name because remember the name is well it's an empty name it's the
base function with no name.
But I have all these properties and methods on it and up the prototype chain you can see object over
here.
I also have has on property as prototype of property is innumerable just like we have it up there in
our diagram.
So that's actually what's happening here.
When we do multiplied by five we have our proto property that links up to the function and this function
over here has the call apply and bind.
Now you may notice here there's something called prototype here that the underscore underscore Prado
links to and once again underscore underscore proto links to prototype and then this proto links to
no this is the base object and eventually we link to know we point to no.
You see a pattern here right.
We see a pattern like this where Kroto links to prototype I know very very confusing.
So let's break this down multiplied by five which is a callable object that has a code that is invoke
Bill it has name that's optional.
It can have some properties it also has this protocol as well as a prototype property and that profile
links up to this function which once again is a callable object a special type of object that has its
own code.
It has properties but it also has this property called prototype that the promo links to.
And that's where call apply and bind live and as a matter of fact.
This yellow arrow here underscore underscore protocol actually lives inside of this object.
I just did and included here because while I ran out of space.
So does your brain hurt yet.
Let's test out our assumption.
Let's go back to this diagram and test what I just told you.
Multiply by five dot underscore underscore Kroto should point to that base function.
Let's clear this first.
So let's try that again.
We'll do multiplied by five.
Dot underscore underscore proton which is a pointer.
It points to the function dot prototype.
So I get this native function.
So the native function is function dot prototype.
This is the same because multiplied by PHI underscore underscore proton points to the prototype function.
Dot prototype still confused let's try this.
What if I do object dot prototype.
Well I get this base object that we kept seeing everywhere.
It's the prototype property of the object.
If we go back to the diagram we see object that has prototype with has own property and other functions.
And that prototype also includes Kroto as one of its properties that points to no let's test that object
dot prototype that has a property underscore underscore Kroto that points to no again.
I don't think javascript did a great job naming these things because it is confusing.
But remember this diagram Prato is simply a reference or a pointer to up the chain prototype object.
Let's test this out with well with an array.
If I create an array let's say array that is an empty array and this array Dot has own property.
Well does this array have its own property map nope it doesn't remember we're being efficient with our
memory map function should live only in one location in memory up the prototype chain with the base
array so instead.
Now over here let's do array will be the same thing in here.
If I do underscore underscore proton
which is the property does that have on property map.
And if we do array dot prototype Well we get the base array and if I do array dot underscore underscore
Kroto we get the base array so array dot Proton is pointing to the farther array dot prototype to review
arrays and functions are objects in javascript multiplied by five is a special type of object that is
a callable object that instead of having called in apply and bind directly as its properties use this
prototype all inheritance to actually inherit from the base function and the key here is that proton
points to the prototype up the chain.
And keep in mind that this Kroto property actually lives on the prototype.
I know I know very extremely confusing but this way we're able to be efficient with our memory.
We're able to use the map function or the for each functions on an array just write them once instead
of just copying those same methods and properties all over the place.
All right let's take a break and explore some more in the next video I'll see in the next one.